* What is structured data? :

Structured data is typically quantitative data that is organized and easily searchable. The programming language Structured Query Language (SQL) is used in a relational database to “query” to input and search within structured data. 

Examples of structured data include names, addresses, credit card numbers, telephone numbers, star ratings from customers, bank information, and other data that can be easily searched using SQL. 

* Pros and cons of structured data :

Three main benefits of structured data are:
It’s easily searchable and used for machine learning algorithms.
It’s accessible to businesses and organizations for interpreting data.
There are more tools available for analyzing structured data than unstructured. 

* Some drawbacks include :

It’s limited in usage, meaning it can only be used for its intended purpose.
It’s limited in storage options because it’s stored in systems like data warehouses with rigid schemas.

* What is unstructured data? :

Unstructured data is every other type of data that is not structured. Approximately 80-90% of data is unstructured, meaning it has huge potential for competitive advantage if companies find ways to leverage it [1]. Unstructured data includes content such as emails, images, videos, audio files, social media posts, PDFs, and much more.

Unstructured data is typically stored in data lakes, NoSQL databases, data warehouses, and applications. Today, this information can be processed by artificial intelligence algorithms and delivers huge value for organizations.

* Pros and cons of unstructured data :

These are some benefits of unstructured data:

It remains undefined until it’s needed, making it adaptable for data professionals to take only what they need for a specific query while storing most data in massive data lakes.
Within definitions, unstructured data can be collected quickly and easily.

* These are the drawbacks of unstructured data :

It requires data scientists to have expertise in preparing and analyzing the data, which could restrict other employees in the organization from accessing it.
Special tools are needed to deal with unstructured data, further contributing to its lack of accessibility.

